Comprehensive 

It’s a comprehensive approach, which we can think of right now.

Muster 

I mustered all the requirements from the product specification document

Mutually beneficial 

It will be mutually beneficial if we sign the contract sooner.

Resourceful

You completed this within the short timeframe. You’re resourceful. 

Compile 

He compiled all the necessary information for the upcoming meeting.

As things stand 

As things stand, we can provide 50% bonus.

In a nutshell 

In a nutshell, this product will give a bright future for our company.

Tentative appointment 

I have a tentative appointment tomorrow. 

Call off

He called off the meeting in the last minute

 Fruitful 

Thanks Brett, Last 1 hr we had a fruitful discussion.

Come up (with)

I came up with this temporary solution based on the current priority.

Run out

He is running out of ideas in the meeting

Come across 

I came across this web page, which contains useful information about the stock market.

Pin my hopes on 

I pin my hopes in my wife, because she is the backbone of our family.

Abandon 

Heavy rain forced the match to be abandoned. 

 Under these circumstances 

Under these circumstances, he should focus on his health

 Intermittent 

I believe it’s an intermittent problem, and we can ignore this. 

Debilitate 

Prolonged working hours will debilitate your eyes and health


Stop - gap measure – to find temporary solution for a problem until ….

This solution is a stop - gap measure, until we find the permanent solution.


Pester 

My child pesters me until he gets, what he want.


Futuristic

I appreciate the design and this will align with our futuristic goal. 

Netiquette 

Please use polite language in posts.

Detrimental 

Excess screentime is detrimental for your eyes 

Alleviate 

This medicine will alleviate the pain

Mitigate 

We need to mitigate this risk before implementing this solution. 

Breakthrough 

My manager helped a breakthrough in my carrier

All of a sudden – suddenly 

All of a sudden, the car was stopped

Exacerbate 

Winter weather exacerbates the rescue operation. Exaggerate 

He always exaggerates his work.

Viable – possible/feasible

This is a viable option on current situation.

1.    In my opinion – in my point of view

In my opinion, we can go for this approach. This will help us deliver in the short timeframe.

2.    According to Ram

According to Ram, one of his team member is not happy about the compensation.

Agreeing:

1.    I agree with you 100 percent.

I agree with 100% on chris proposal.

2.    That’s so true.

That’s so true, even I am not sure how the weekend went.

3.    You are absolutely right.

You are absolutely right; we need to start early to reach the temple on time.

4.    You’re right.

 

5.    That’s exactly how I feel.

That’s exactly how I felt, when I heard the news.

6.    You have a point there.

You have a point there, but as per current timeline, we can’t achievable.

Interruptions:

1.    Can I add something here?

Hey Chris, Can I add something here. I would appreciate the team on successful delivery within a short timeline.

 

2.    Sorry to interrupt, but ….

Sorry to interrupt, I need a clarification on this approach.

3.    Sorry, go ahead.

Sorry, go ahead. I also have the same question.

Disagreeing:

1.    I totally disagree.

I totally disagree, the movie was boring

2.    I am not sure about that.

Yes I heard the news, but I am not sure about that.

3.    I don’t think so.

I don’t think so, he is a reliable person.

4.    That’s not always true.

That’s not always true, sometimes even in summer the rain may come

5.    That’s not always the case.

He mentioned he never miss the but, but that’s not always the case

6.    No way

No way, he will achieve this milestone.

7.    I have a different point of view

I have a different point of view on this topic we discussed

8.    I understand your point, but I have to disagree

I understand your point, but I have to disagree due to short timeline.

9.    It sounds interesting, but (reason)

It sounds interesting, but now, it’s not possible

10.        It’s not as simple as it seems

    The project is not as simple as it seems.

VOCABULARY:

1.    Obsolete

I kept the obsolete items in my balcony.

I need to improve my communication skills, and I don’t want obsolete in the meetings.

2.    Indispensable

He is indispensable in the project.

3.    Computer – literate

In my childhood I felt only literate people only will succeed in life, but that’s not always true.

4.    Outdated x updated

My son mentioned that, my dresses are outdated

I updated my cloud skillset, to get this job

5.    Cutting – edge

 

6.    It isn’t a rocket science

It isn’t a rocket science, what I have done. If any one knows this programming language can complete this.

7.    Glitch

There were small glitches on the project I delivered.

8.    Tech – savy

My friend is a Tech-Savy, I always depends on him for complex problems.

9.    Disrupt

Today i had a disrupted internet connection

10.        Geek



1. I sincerely apologize. 

I sincerely apologize for the things happened in the meeting. I should have listed your comments. 

2. Sorry for the inconvenience caused. 

I should have included you in the architecture meetings and your absence leads to rejection of our approach.  Sorry for the inconvenience caused.  

 

3. Sorry for the confusion 

Sorry for the confusion, i included your name accidentally for this meeting. Just now i removed your name from the list of recipients.



4. Sorry? 

Sorry? I didn't like the way you speak with me.

 

5.Sorry, could you please repeat that? 

Sorry, I didn’t catch the last point. Could you please repeat that? 

  

6. Sorry to hear that. 

Sorry to hear that on your personal loss. I hope you will recover soon. 

 

7. I am sorry that happened to you  



8. I am sorry, that was my fault. 

 

9. I apologize, I was out of line. 

 

I apologize, I was out of line on the conversation happened on yesterday.  



1. I am so grateful. 
I am so grateful for your timely assistance. 
2. Thanks for your hard work on this. 
I know you put a lot of effort into completing the work, thanks for your hard work on 
this. 
(Corrected – Included ‘a’ after put, replace for with into) 
3. I appreciate it. 
Thanks for your assistance. I appreciate it. 
4. Thanks for having my back. 
During the hard times in carrier, thanks for having my back 
5. Please accept my deepest gratitude. 
You projected my achievement to the top management in the right way, please accept 
my deepest gratitude. 
6. I owe you one. 
Thanks for stepping in for me today. I owe you one.  
7. I couldn’t have done without you. 
8. I can’t thank you enough. 
I can’t thank you enough for stepping in when i needed the most. 
9. That’s so kind of you. 
You brought me coffee, That’s so kind of you 
10. Thank you for taking the time to do this. 
I appreciate your proactiveness in taking on the work and thank you for taking the time 
to do this.  
Changed the ‘to take; to in taking 
11. Your support means the world. 
Thank you for backing my ideas; Your support means the world in helping implement 
them.  
12. Thanks in advance. 
We need to complete the project by this Saturday. Kindly provide your approval for 
promoting the changes. Thanks in advance. 
(Before – changed to by) 
VOCABULARY 
1. Man of a word.   My manager is a man of his word, if he says something then he will 
do it. 
2. Exclude - include (opp) 
We can exclude this scope from the requirement 
He is a new team member; Please include him in the meeting series.  
3. Detach – attach (opp) 
We need to detach the unnecessary files before submitting. 
4. Vivid – clear 
My director is a decisive person; he has vivid vision and takes the initiative to 
implement the new technologies.  
5. Vague – not clear 
I have some ideas for how to proceed further. As of now, it's vague, but I will come up 
with more detailed ones. 

1. I am so grateful. 
I am so grateful for your timely assistance. 
2. Thanks for your hard work on this. 
I know you put a lot of effort into completing the work, thanks for your hard work on 
this. 
(Corrected – Included ‘a’ after put, replace for with into) 
3. I appreciate it. 
Thanks for your assistance. I appreciate it. 
4. Thanks for having my back. 
During the hard times in carrier, thanks for having my back 
5. Please accept my deepest gratitude. 
You projected my achievement to the top management in the right way, please accept 
my deepest gratitude. 
6. I owe you one. 
Thanks for stepping in for me today. I owe you one.  
7. I couldn’t have done without you. 
8. I can’t thank you enough. 
I can’t thank you enough for stepping in when i needed the most. 
9. That’s so kind of you. 
You brought me coffee, That’s so kind of you 
10. Thank you for taking the time to do this. 
I appreciate your proactiveness in taking on the work and thank you for taking the time 
to do this.  
Changed the ‘to take; to in taking 
11. Your support means the world. 
Thank you for backing my ideas; Your support means the world in helping implement 
them.  
12. Thanks in advance. 
We need to complete the project by this Saturday. Kindly provide your approval for 
promoting the changes. Thanks in advance. 
(Before – changed to by) 
VOCABULARY 
1. Man of a word.   My manager is a man of his word  (, if he says something then he will 
do it. ) 
2. Exclude - include (opp) 
We can exclude this scope from the requirement 
He is a new team member; Please include him in the meeting series.  
3. Detach – attach (opp) 
We need to detach the unnecessary files before submitting. 
4. Vivid – clear 
My director is a decisive person; he has clear vision and takes the initiative to 
implement the new technologies.  
5. Vague – not clear 
I have some ideas for how to proceed further. As of now, it's vague, but I will come up 
with more detailed ones. 
Vocabulary 
1. Take the lead 
Let Alex take the lead on this project. 
Since Anusha is an SME in this area, let her take lead on this. 
It's better if someone has experience to take a lead on this.  
2. Streamline 
I would like to streamline the process before hand over this project to other applications.  
Let’s streamline the process, otherwise we will be on tight budget. 
3. Back to the drawing board 
The project is not going in the right direction, let us go back to the drawing board. 
4. Leverage – utilize 
They would like to leverage our team members to complete their project on time.  
We leveraged all the budget for this financial year and now we are running out of money. 
5. Think outside the box 
We are stuck in this step.  shall we think outside the box to complete this step.   
6. Take it offline 
Hey Alex, we need to cover several items in the meeting, for your question shall we take it 
offline.  
7. Low-hanging fruit 
This certificate is the low-hanging fruit of all the certifications. Let's leverage the free time 
to complete the certification. 
8. Let’s table this 
I understand this topic is a good one, but let’s table this due to other important subjects. 
9. To be on a tight budget (was, were, am, is, are, will 
be) 
We are on a tight budget, so we can expect some resource reduction in the 2nd quarter. 
10. Optimize/ Enhance 
We need to optimize the performance of our user interface. Otherwise, business users will 
escalate on this.  

